---

copyright:
  years: 2016, 2018

lastupdated: "2018-05-12"

---

{:new_window: target="_blank"}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:screen: .screen}
{:pre: .pre}
{:table: .aria-labeledby="caption"}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:tip: .tip}
{:download: .download}


# Security services    
{: #security_svcs}

Use the {{site.data.keyword.cloudaccesstrailfull}} service to track how applications interact with security services in the {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix}}. 
{:shortdesc}


## {{site.data.keyword.cloudcerts_short}}
{: #cert_mgr}

You can use {{site.data.keyword.cloudcerts_short}} to manage the SSL certificates for your {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix_notm}}-based apps and services. For more information, see [{{site.data.keyword.cloudcerts_full_notm}}](/docs/services/certificate-manager/about.html#about-cloud-certs).

In the {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix_notm}}, you can provision one or more instances of the {{site.data.keyword.cloudcerts_short}} service in a region.

When you import, delete, or download a certificate, an {{site.data.keyword.cloudaccesstrailshort}} event is generated. These events are automatically forwarded to the {{site.data.keyword.cloudaccesstrailshort}} service in the same region where the {{site.data.keyword.cloudcerts_short}} service is provisioned.

To monitor the API activity, you must provision the {{site.data.keyword.cloudaccesstrailshort}} service in a space that is available in the same region where the {{site.data.keyword.cloudcerts_short}} service is provisioned. Then, you can view events through the account view in the {{site.data.keyword.cloudaccesstrailshort}} UI if you have a lite plan, and through Kibana if you have a premium plan.

The following table lists the API methods that generate an event when they are called:

<table>
  <caption>Actions that generate events</caption>
  <tr>
    <th>target.name</th>
    <th>Action</th>
    <th>target.typeURI</th>
	<th>Description</th>
  <tr>
  <tr>
    <td>cloudcerts</td>
    <td>Delete Certificate</td>
    <td>`certificate/delete`</td>
	<td>Delete a certificate.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>cloudcerts</td>
    <td>List Certificates</td>
    <td>`certificates/list`</td>
	<td>Download a certificate.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>cloudcerts</td>
    <td>List Certificates Metadata</td>
    <td>`certificates/list/metadata`</td>
	<td>Show details of a certificate.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>cloudcerts</td>
    <td>Import Certificate</td>
    <td>`certificate/import`</td>
	<td>Import a certificate that is issued by a third-party certificate authority.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>cloudcerts</td>
    <td>Update Certificate</td>
    <td>`certificate/update`</td>
	<td>Update a certificate, for example, change the name of a certificate.</td>
  </tr>
</table>


 	
 	

## IAM Log in to the {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix_notm}}
{: #login}

When a user, or application logs into the {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix_notm}}, by using a password, an API key, and authentication code, or a passcode, an {{site.data.keyword.cloudaccesstrailshort}} event is generated for each attempt. As a federated user, you can log in from the command-line interface (CLI) by using either a one-time passcode or an API key. 

To view these events, you must provision an instance of the {{site.data.keyword.cloudaccesstrailshort}} service in the **us-south** region. Then, you must open the {{site.data.keyword.cloudaccesstrailshort}} UI, and change to the account domain to see events. 

**Note:** The events that are generated by the {{site.data.keyword.iamshort}} service are available through the {{site.data.keyword.cloudaccesstrailshort}} UI, account domain, in the **us-south** region.

The following table lists the actions that generate an event when you log in or log out from the {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix_notm}}:

<table>
  <caption>Actions that generate events when you log in or log out from the {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix_notm}}</caption>
  <tr>
    <th>Actions</th>
	  <th>Description</th>
  <tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`/iam/audit/login/apikey`</td>
	  <td>Log in by using an API key.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`/iam/audit/login/auth_code`</td>
	  <td>Log in by using an authorization code.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`/iam/audit/login/password`</td>
	  <td>Log in by using a password.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`/iam/audit/login/passcode`</td>
	  <td>Log in by using a passcode.</td>
  </tr>
</table>





## IAM Platform API keys
{: #platform_api_keys}

An application programming interface key (API key) is a unique code that is passed in to an application programming interface (API) to identify the calling application or user. 

* A federated or non-federated user can create an API key to use on the CLI or as part of automation to log in as your user identity. You can use the UI or the CLI to manage your API keys. For more information, see [Managing API keys](/docs/iam/userid_keys.html#userapikey).
* A service ID identifies a service or application similar to how a user ID identifies a user. When you create a service ID, you can create API keys specific to each service ID that your application can use to authenticate with your {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix_notm}} services. For more information, see [Creating and working with service IDs](/docs/iam/serviceid.html#serviceids).

When you create, rename, or delete an API key, an {{site.data.keyword.cloudaccesstrailshort}} event is generated for each action. 

**Note:** An API key name and description might not be unique in the account. The unique identifier of an API key is the crn. The crn information is provided in every {{site.data.keyword.cloudaccesstrailshort}} event. The *message* field contains the crn information.

To view {{site.data.keyword.cloudaccesstrailshort}} events, you must provision an instance of the {{site.data.keyword.cloudaccesstrailshort}} service in the **us-south** region. Then, you must open the {{site.data.keyword.cloudaccesstrailshort}} UI, and change to the account domain to see events. 

**Note:** The events that are generated when you manage platform API keys are available through the account domain in the **us-south** region.


The following table lists the actions that generate an event when you work with platform keys:

<table>
  <caption>Actions that generate events for user API keys</caption>
  <tr>
    <th>Actions</th>
	  <th>Description</th>
  <tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`/iam/audit/apikey/userapikey/create`</td>
	  <td>Create a platform API key.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`/iam/audit/apikey/userapikey/update`</td>
	  <td>Rename a platform API key.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`/iam/audit/apikey/userapikey/delete`</td>
	  <td>Delete a platform API key.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

<table>
  <caption>Actions that generate events for service API keys</caption>
  <tr>
    <th>Actions</th>
	  <th>Description</th>
  <tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`/iam/audit/apikey/serviceid/create`</td>
	  <td>Create a platform API key that is associated with a service ID.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`/iam/audit/apikey/serviceid/update`</td>
	  <td>Rename a platform API key that is associated with a service ID.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`/iam/audit/apikey/serviceid/delete`</td>
	  <td>Delete a platform API key that is associated with a service ID.</td>
  </tr>
</table>



	

## IAM Service IDs
{: #service_ids}

A service ID identifies a service or application similar to how a user ID identifies a user. A service ID that you create can be used to enable an application outside of {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix_notm}} access to your {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix_notm}} services. For more information, see [Creating and working with service IDs](/docs/iam/serviceid.html#serviceids).

When you create, rename, or delete a service ID, an {{site.data.keyword.cloudaccesstrailshort}} event is generated for each action. 

**Note:** A service ID name and description might not be unique in the account. The unique identifier of a service ID is the crn. The crn information is provided  in every {{site.data.keyword.cloudaccesstrailshort} event. The *message* field contains the crn information.

To view these events, you must provision an instance of the {{site.data.keyword.cloudaccesstrailshort}} service in the **us-south** region. Then, you must open the {{site.data.keyword.cloudaccesstrailshort}} UI, and change to the account domain to see events. 

**Note:** The events that are generated when you manage platform API keys are available through the account domain in the **us-south** region.

The following table lists the actions that generate an event when you work with service IDs:

<table>
  <caption>Actions that generate events for service IDs</caption>
  <tr>
    <th>Actions</th>
	  <th>Description</th>
  <tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`/iam/audit/serviceid/account/create`</td>
	  <td>Create a service ID.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`/iam/audit/serviceid/account/update`</td>
	  <td>Rename a service ID.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`/iam/audit/serviceid/account/delete`</td>
	  <td>Delete a service ID.</td>
  </tr>
</table>




## {{site.data.keyword.keymanagementserviceshort}}    
{: #key_protect}

{{site.data.keyword.keymanagementserviceshort}} is an encryption key management service. You can use the {{site.data.keyword.keymanagementserviceshort}} service to provision encrypted keys for apps across {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix_notm}}. For more information, see [Getting started with Key Protect](/docs/services/keymgmt/index.html#getting-started-with-key-protect).

You can manage secrets (keys) through the {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix_notm}} UI or programmatically by using the [{{site.data.keyword.keymanagementserviceshort}} API](https://docs-api-keyprotect.ng.bluemix.net/#/){: new_window}.

Events that are generated by the {{site.data.keyword.keymanagementserviceshort}} service are available at the account level. 

When you create, import, delete, or read a secret (an API key), an {{site.data.keyword.cloudaccesstrailshort}} event is generated. These events are automatically forwarded to the {{site.data.keyword.cloudaccesstrailshort}} service in the same region where the {{site.data.keyword.keymanagementserviceshort}} service is provisioned.

To monitor the API activity, you must provision the {{site.data.keyword.cloudaccesstrailshort}} service in a space that is available in the same region where the {{site.data.keyword.keymanagementserviceshort}} service is provisioned. Then, you can view events through the account view in the {{site.data.keyword.cloudaccesstrailshort}} UI if you have a lite plan, and through Kibana if you have a premium plan.


The following table lists the {{site.data.keyword.keymanagementserviceshort}} actions that generate an {{site.data.keyword.cloudaccesstrailshort}} event when they are invoked:

<table>
  <caption>Table 1. {{site.data.keyword.keymanagementserviceshort}} actions that generate an {{site.data.keyword.cloudaccesstrailshort}} event</caption>
  <tr>
    <th>Action</th>
	  <th>Description</th>
  <tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`kms.secrets.list`</td>
	  <td>Read a secret.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`kms.secrets.create`</td>
	  <td>Create a secret.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>`kms.secrets.delete`</td>
	  <td>Delete a secret by ID</td>
  </tr>
</table>

**Note:** A secret is an encrypted key.





